Skip to Main Content
FHIR
Search
Log in / Register
Home
Documentation
FHIR FAQs

Apr 15, 2024Knowledge Articles
FHIR FAQs

FHIR® FAQs

What is FHIR®? How does this differ from Flatiron’s current integration offerings? How do I know if FHIR® APIs are right for me?

FHIR® is a new healthcare interoperability standard developed by Health Level 7 (HL7®) organization. FHIR is both a transport and a content standard that uses modular, reusable components known as “Resources” that support multiple use cases or “Profiles”. FHIR® uses web-friendly formats (REST) APIs for information exchange to transmit clinical and administrative data via data requests and responses. For more information on FHIR® please see the HL7® “What is FHIR®?” fact sheet.

Which FHIR® resources does Flatiron support?

A complete list of Flatiron’s supported FHIR® resources and profiles can be found on the Documentation → FHIR® Resources/Profiles page. Please note that this list is subject to change as Flatiron works to improve and expand our FHIR® API offering.

How do I know which USCDI data element is supported by which resource?

Within each of the available resource pages, you will see a row indicating which USCDI data elements are tied to Flatiron’s implementation of each US Core Profile. This webpage within the HL7® US Core Implementation Guide may also be helpful. 

How can I find a given record within a FHIR resource?

Each FHIR resource page lists supported searches for the HL7® US Core Implementation Guide. Resource IDs may or may not be the same as identifiers from other data sources. One simple search to get started is searching for a patient based on their MRN:

https://fhir.prod.flatiron.io/fhir/Patient?identifier=<MRN>;

Does Flatiron support “write” API access?

No, Flatiron does not support “write” API access at this time. 

What is a “Practice PIN”? 

A practice PIN is a unique identifier for Flatiron OncoEMR® practices. Application developers interested in setting up a FHIR API integration with an OncoEMR® customer should obtain the PIN directly from the practice they seek to partner with to include in their FHIR API Registration Form. When submitting your FHIR API Registration Form, you will need this information to confirm which Flatiron practice you seek to partner with for the integration. 

I am having trouble creating a FHIR API account. How can I resolve this issue?

When creating a password, make sure that you are meeting all password requirements (1 uppercase letter, 1 lowercase letter, 1 symbol, 1 number, and a minimum of 8 characters). If you are still running into issues creating a FHIR API account, please contact oesupport@flatiron.com. 

How should I enter my information within a registration form if my application supports multiple use cases? 

If your application supports multiple use cases (e.g., a patient application module as well as a practitioner application module), you will need to submit a registration form for each use case. 

How can I test my application?

Once your application has been registered for production use, one of Flatiron’s integration specialists will be in contact to securely provide your client credentials as well as test patient information that will allow you to test your application on specific test patients. If you are seeking support for testing that goes beyond information provided, please see Flatiron’s Value Added Services which may be purchased on a per integration basis. 

How long will I need to wait after a form is submitted before I receive my credentials?

Application credentials will be provided in accordance with ONC regulations. Once a registration form is received, Flatiron will conduct security verification within 10 days of receipt and will register the application for production use within 5 days of security verification being completed. It is important to note that for Practitioner API use cases, Flatiron requires the explicit confirmation of the OncoEMR® customer before a request is considered to be final. 

Why is my application still in a Pending Review status?

If you are experiencing delays in receiving your credentials, it may be because the OncoEMR® customer has not yet authorized the integration. 

How do I transfer ownership for an existing integration?

If you currently manage the account credentials for an existing integration and need to shift credentials to another member of your organization, please reach out to the Flatiron integration specialist who initially supported you in setting up the use case and/or oesupport@flatiron.com. 

How do I request a scope modification?

If your application has changed and you would like to request to add additional certified FHIR® API resources, you can do so by selecting the specific application-instance object and clicking the “Make a Scope Modification Request” button. You will need to complete this for each OncoEMR® customer with which your application is integrated via FHIR® API.

How can I request a refresh token if I did not include as part of my original request?

Please send a note to oesupport@flatiron.com. Be sure to include your original request number within the communication. 

Does Flatiron support the use of CDS Hooks for pushing data based on actions in the EHR?

No, not at this time. 

FHIR-FAQs
Published
FAQs
FHIR FAQs
