Skip to Main Content
FHIR
Search
Log in / Register
Home
Documentation
Flatiron FHIR Overview

Aug 25, 2025Knowledge Articles
Flatiron FHIR Overview

Flatiron’s FHIR® API Overview

Table of Contents

Overview

Service Base URL

FHIR® Resources & Profiles

OAuth 2 Authorization & Authentication

Supported Launch Mechanisms

Supported Operations

Capability Statement

Responses

Overview

Flatiron’s OncoEMR® team is excited to offer our Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources (FHIR®) application programming interface (API) to OncoEMR® patients, customers, and the third-party vendors they partner with. Flatiron’s FHIR® API offerings can help customers exchange data between systems and solve for a variety of use cases. Similarly, Flatiron FHIR® API offerings will provide patients with access to data via the applications they choose to share information with. Flatiron conforms to the US Core Server Capability Statement (Implementation Guide 4.0.1 based on FHIR® R4*) which details both FHIR® profile and interaction support. The following information is provided to support interested parties who would like to set up an integration using Flatiron’s FHIR® APIs.

Service Base URL

Flatiron’s FHIR® service base URL can be found here: https://fhir.prod.flatiron.io/fhir. This base URL contains a bundle resource within which all other endpoints are contained. This bundle includes the common URL for each Flatiron customer, formatted as an Endpoint resource. The bundle also includes Organization resources for each customer, including the customer’s name, location, and NPI, along with a reference to the common Endpoint resource (noted above). The service base URL and organization details are published in Endpoint resource and Organization resource formats, respectively,  according to the HL7® Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources (FHIR®) Release 4.0.1 standard.


Application developers can reference the service base URL when calling data from OncoEMR. Flatiron’s FHIR server will return relevant data based on the authorization credentials included within the request.  

FHIR® Resources & Profiles

Flatiron supports the following FHIR® US Core R4.0.1 - STU 4 profiles to support the ONC’s Health IT Certification Program requirements. The below profiles are linked to either the HL7® US Core Implementation Guide 4.0.0 or 6.1.0 profile specification. Flatiron’s FHIR® API implementation includes all MUST SUPPORT and REQUIRED data elements as well as RESTful READ and SEARCH operations outlined within the US Core Implementation Guide.

AllergyIntolerance 

Appointment

CarePlan

CareTeam

Condition

Condition Encounter Diagnosis

Condition Problem & Health Concerns 

Coverage

Implantable Device

DiagnosticReport 

For Lab Results Reporting

For Report and Note exchange

DocumentReference

Encounter

Goal

Immunization

Location

MedicationRequest

MedicationAdministration

MedicationStatement

Medication Dispense

Organization

Patient

Practitioner

Practitioner Role

Procedure

Provenance

Related Persons

Service Request

Specimen

Observations

Clinical Result

Lab Results

Occupation

Pregnancy Intent

Pregnancy Status

Sexual Orientation

Simple Observation

Smoking Status

Vital Signs

Questionnaire Response

OAuth 2 Authorization & Authentication

Flatiron’s FHIR® API implementation supports the SMART Application Launch Framework Implementation Guide Release 1.0.0, SMART Application Launch v2.0.0, and the Bulk Data Access Implementation Guide and provides an OAuth 2.0 compliant authorization server. As described by HL7®, the SMART App Launch framework enables support for the below:

 

“Connects third-party applications to Electronic Health Record data, allowing apps to launch from inside or outside the user interface of an EHR system. The framework supports apps for use by clinicians, patients, and others via PHR or Patient Portal or any FHIR® system where a user can give permissions to launch an app. It provides a reliable, secure authorization protocol for a variety of app architectures, including apps that run on an end-user’s device as well as apps that run on a secure server.”

 

Any application (including native applications) seeking to access one or many of Flatiron’s FHIR® API resources on behalf of a user will need to request authorization and then use that authorization to retrieve the requested resources. Flatiron supports FHIR® API authorization for 1) public applications (i.e. those that cannot protect a client secret), 2) confidential applications that can provide a Flatiron-provisioned client secret (for symmetric authentication), and 3) confidential applications that can make their own public key available and generate an authentication JWT signed by the corresponding private key (for asymmetric authentication). “Public” and “confidential” are used in the context of the OAuth 2.0 framework, where a confidential application is capable of maintaining the confidentiality of their client credentials, whereas a public application is not. Flatiron is capable of revoking an authorized application’s access at a patient’s direction within 1 hour of the request.  

 

Application developers will be asked at the point of completing the Flatiron FHIR® API Registration Form how their application will authenticate when requesting an access token. The Flatiron team will then configure the client credentials for the application accordingly. 


Any user using an application registered with Flatiron’s authorization server may initiate a FHIR® API launch request using one of Flatiron’s supported launch mechanisms (listed below). 

Supported Launch Mechanisms

The authorization process described above varies slightly based on the launch mechanism by which the process is initiated and whether the FHIR® app is intended for practitioners or patients. Flatiron supports four FHIR® API launch mechanisms. Additional information on each of these launch mechanisms can be found here.

Provider EHR Launch: Third party practitioner FHIR® app can launch directly from OncoEMR® user interface (UI). Allows for single sign-on via OAuth2 which enables users to use their OncoEMR® user login to sign into the third party practitioner app. See examples. 

Provider Standalone Launch: Third party standalone practitioner FHIR® apps can authenticate and get authorization to access patient data from OncoEMR®. Practitioner apps require an OncoEMR® user login for authentication whereas patient apps require a CareSpace® user login. See examples.

Note: If your use case requires a system-level account for authentication, rather than a user-level account, please refer to the backend launch option below.

Provider Backend Access (Single Patient API): Third party FHIR® app can authenticate and get authorization to access patient data from OncoEMR®. Rather than requiring an individual user to grant access, the app can access all patients in a given OncoEMR® instance at the system-level via the single-patient FHIR® APIs. See examples. 

Provider Backend Access (Bulk Data Access): Enables pre-defined population level data exchange that can be consumed by an application. We are able to securely transfer a file to a public url and export clinical data for multiple patients in a static pre-defined group. See examples. 

Patient Standalone Launch: Third party standalone patient FHIR® apps can authenticate and get authorization to access patient data from CareSpace. See examples.

If your use case requires a separate authentication mechanism, please reach out to oesupport@flatiron.com with the below information:

Desired FHIR® API launch source (i.e. OncoEMR® or Standalone Launch)

Target end user for your use case

Details of desired authentication mechanism

Supported Operations

Uses RESTful behavior according to the FHIR® specification. Supports RESTful READ and SEARCH operations for all resources. 

Search operations may be executed against a specific resource type using a request such as the one listed below:

GET [Base]/Patient
Additional search parameters may be included within the request. Flatiron supported search parameters for each supported FHIR® resource can be found within the individual page for that resource. To see all of Flatiron’s supported search parameters, use the following request:
GET [Base]/metadata

 

Each search parameter has a defined data type. Additional information on search parameter data types can be found here. Within each of the resource pages, you will find reference to various composite searches. Composite searches allow you to search using multiple search parameters.
Capability Statement

https://fhir.prod.flatiron.io/fhir/metadata

Responses
Supports json source formats for all US Core interactions
Returns the following response classes:

(Status 200): Success

This status will be returned in the event of a valid API request

(Status 400): invalid parameter

This status will be returned in the event of an invalid or bad URL request to the server

(Status 401/4xx): unauthorized request

(Status 403): insufficient scopes

This status will be returned in the event a user tries to access another users’ profile or data

(Status 404): unknown resource

(Status 429): service at capacity, will not serve traffic until resolved. 

It is important to note that in some circumstances it may be appropriate for Flatiron to take actions such as deny access, throttle or meter to limit negative impact on health IT that may result from technical design, features or behavior of third-party applications. These actions may be necessary to protect the overall performance of OncoEMR. Flatiron will apply these actions only when necessary and in compliance with the Health IT Performance Information Blocking Exception. 





Flatiron-FHIR-Overview
Published
FHIR API Overview
Flatiron FHIR Overview
