Skip to Main Content
FHIR
Search
Log in / Register
Home
Documentation


Getting Started with Flatiron’s FHIR APIs
Overview

This overview, as well as the pages linked within, will assist you in finding all information necessary to prepare for utilizing Flatiron’s Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resource Application Programming Interfaces (FHIR® APIs). FHIR® is an HL7® data standard that defines how healthcare information can be exchanged between different computer systems regardless of how it is stored in those systems. It allows healthcare information, including clinical and administrative data, to be available securely to those who have a need to access it, and to those who have the right to do so for the benefit of a patient receiving care. For this and more information on FHIR®, see ASTP/ONC’s What is FHIR®? fact sheet. 

Flatiron’s FHIR® API implementation allows for data to be exchanged between OncoEMR® and third-party applications. As it stands today, Flatiron’s OncoEMR® FHIR® API integrations can be summarized by the key characteristics listed below.

 

Exchange Standard: Flatiron uses a REST-based access layer for standard HL7®-defined data models. As described in more detail within ASTP/ONC’s The FHIR® API fact sheet, REST stands for Representational State Transfer and is an information exchange standard. One key differentiator of the REST standard is that it allows systems to request and exchange just a single data element, rather than receive a document containing a patient’s full record. 




Data Elements: Flatiron supports read-only FHIR® API access for all United States Core Data for Interoperability (USCDI) version 1 data elements and will support read-only access for all USCDI v3 data elements in advance of 12/31/25, in accordance with ASTP/ONC’s HTI-1 regulation. USCDI data elements are accessible via various FHIR® APIs. A mapping of USCDI v1 data elements to the applicable HL7® FHIR® US Core Profile and FHIR® Resource can be found here. A mapping of USCDI v3 data elements to the applicable HL7® FHIR® US Core Profile and FHIR® Resource can be found here.




Search Operations: Flatiron supports all search operations required by the US Core Implementation Guide 4.0.0 and outlined in the US Core Server CapabilityStatement for search requests for a single patient’s data. Additional information regarding Flatiron’s available FHIR® resources and supported US Core IG 4.0.0 Profiles can be found here. 




Use Cases (Single and Multi-Patient): Flatiron supports use cases for both patient and practitioner SMART-on-FHIR applications where the end user seeks to access data for a single patient. SMART-on-FHIR applications where the practitioner is the end user can be launched standalone or directly from OncoEMR®. Flatiron also supports use cases where an application seeks to exchange information for multiple patients’ data. Flatiron’s API implementation adheres to the FHIR® Bulk Data Access (Flat FHIR®) implementation guide.




Application Types: Flatiron supports FHIR® API access for server-side and public applications
Getting Started

Below are the steps required to configure an application to interact with Flatiron FHIR® APIs. Once these steps have been completed, an application will be able to query Flatiron FHIR® APIs.

1. Developing a SMART-on-FHIR® Application

In order to interact with FHIR® APIs, you will need to ensure the application meets the SMART-on-FHIR® specifications. Ensure the SMART-on-FHIR® application can support all applicable HL7® security standards.

2. Creating a FHIR® API Developer Account

Creating a FHIR® API Developer Account is quick and easy! All you need is a valid email address associated with your organization to verify you are a human requester.




We recommend that application developers seeking to exchange data via a Flatiron FHIR® API create an account with Flatiron to initiate the FHIR® API registration process. If you are an OncoEMR® site seeking to set up a FHIR® API integration, please direct the application developer you are partnering with to create an account and submit the registration form. 




To avoid duplicate requests, before you create an account ensure that colleagues from your organization have not already submitted a request for your application / use case. Our FHIR® API Developer Account creation page can be found here. Note: When you create an account you will need to select a password that meets the password requirements (8 characters, 1 capital letter, 1 special character).







When you enter your information and click the “Sign Up” button, you should receive an email from a no reply Flatiron address prompting you to verify your new account. 







Once you have verified your account, you should see the “Submit an API Request” and “My Applications” tabs available for selection at the top of the screen. These two sections will not be accessible until you complete your FHIR account registration. 




3. Completing Recommended Preconditions

Flatiron recommends that developers seeking an OncoEMR® integration with a SMART-on-FHIR® application complete the following steps in advance of submitting a formal request via the FHIR® API Registration Form. While these steps are not required to receive API access, they will help clarify whether Flatiron’s FHIR® API offering can support the application’s use case. 




Review Flatiron FHIR® API technical documentation which outlines the details of Flatiron’s FHIR® API offerings







If your application is a practitioner application, we recommend coordinating with the practice(s) with which you seek to set up an integration, in advance of submitting the FHIR® API Registration Form. Within the registration form, you will be asked to input information about the practice and confirm the practice has consented to your proposed use case.




If you are not sure if FHIR® APIs will meet your needs, you can reach out to a Flatiron integration specialist to discuss other integration options at oesupport@flatiron.com.
4. Submitting FHIR® API Registration Form

Flatiron’s FHIR® API Registration Form is the mechanism by which developers of SMART-on-FHIR® applications should submit integration requests for FHIR® API connections. It is essential that the Registration Form be completed with valid and accurate information in order to ensure your request can be processed timely. If information included within the Registration Form is incomplete or unclear, e.g. placeholder or “localhost” redirect URIs, one of Flatiron’s integration specialists may reach out to confirm your information.




Note: If you would like to submit a question/request for a custom integration beyond Flatiron’s current FHIR® offering, please send an enhancement request to Flatiron’s customer support team at oesupport@flatiron.com.




The registration form will first prompt the requester to identify if the application is a “patient” or “practitioner” application. Practice staff provide authorization for practitioner applications, while patients provide authorization for patient applications. For back-end system-level access, requesters should select the “practitioner” option. 







The form will then ask about the use case for the FHIR® application, including the intended purpose and intended user.







If you are requesting a practitioner app, the form will ask how many practices you’re working with for the FHIR API use case:







Next, the form will ask for the following information about the requester:







If the application being registered is for a patient use case, the form will prompt for the following information as well as a redirect URI: 







If “Confidential app: Shared secret” is selected, Flatiron will provide both a client ID and a client secret upon credential transfer. 




If “Confidential app: Public key (recommended)” is selected, a JWKS URL field will appear. You should host your public key(s) at a provided JWKS URL for authentication instead of a shared secret. Flatiron will only provide a client ID. Of note, authenticating with a public key and JWKS URL is also referred to as asymmetric authentication.




If “Public app: None”, e.g. mobile app or browser-based single-page application, is selected, Flatiron will only provide a client ID.




If you select “yes” for a refresh token, a refresh token may be returned along with an initial access token during the authorization process. This refresh token can be utilized to request a new access token, with the same scope, once the initial access token expires. The initial access token will expire after three months. 




A redirect URI is the URL that the authorization server will respond to when either returning an authorization code or denying a request. Note: “localhost” redirect URIs are not accepted.




If the application being registered is for a practitioner use case, the form will also prompt for the following information (in addition to the information requested above):







For Standalone Launch requests, the end user allows information to be  exchanged via FHIR® API from the standalone third party application by logging in with their OncoEMR® user credentials. 




For EHR Launch requests, the form will also prompt for the application’s launch URL. When using an EHR launch flow, a user can launch an app from within their established session in OncoEMR®. When the OncoEMR® user initiates a launch sequence, OncoEMR®will redirect to the app’s registered launch URL. 




For Back-end Launch requests, there is no end user in the loop. This launch mechanism is for server-to-server applications to exchange data with no requirement for authorization by a user. No redirect URI is required for Back-end Launch applications.




Next you will select if you are requesting a SMART 1.0.0 or SMART 2.0.0 scope. When requesting scopes, only SMART 1.0.0 or SMART 2.0.0 scopes may be requested, not a combination of both. 







List out all the scopes your FHIR® application will need in the course of its use.










For any applications where the practitioner is the intended end user for single patient information OR for bulk FHIR® API requests, the registration form will also prompt for the following information for each OncoEMR® practice the application developer is seeking an integration with:







Note: At this step, the requester will be prompted to provide the practice’s OncoEMR PIN for any practice(s) they are partnering with on this integration. A practice’s PIN is non-confidential information that can be located by any logged-in user within the bottom right hand corner of OncoEMR®. Application developers can reach out directly to the practice(s) they are working with for a given use case to obtain this information. 




Finally, the requester will also be prompted to agree to the Flatiron FHIR® API Terms & Conditions.

5. Receiving Client Credentials

Once the Flatiron team receives a request, we will complete a security verification and register the application for production use. While your request is being processed, you will be able to track the progress of your request using the “My Applications” page. When reviewing your request, you may see one of the following statuses:




PENDING REVIEW - Request is still in progress




ACTIVE - Application has been processed and Flatiron integration specialist will be reaching out soon with client credentials (if they have not already)




Once the application is registered for production use, and the OncoEMR® customers that you are working with have consented to the integration (if applicable), a member of the Flatiron API integration team will securely share with you the relevant client credentials depending on the specifics of your request. These credentials will allow your application to make a request to Flatiron’s FHIR® authorization server for registered resource scopes and should be handled safely and securely. Do not post credentials publicly, email in an insecure fashion, or include in any questions posed to the OncoEMR Support team. If credentials are lost, Flatiron will need to generate a new set of credentials for your application/use case. For more details on what happens once a request is launched, see the Flatiron FHIR API Overview section. 




Once you have received client credentials to access Flatiron FHIR® APIs, you will be able to query Flatiron’s FHIR® Server for the resources requested.

6. Test your Application

At this point, your application will be registered for production use! A Flatiron API integration specialist will provide you with basic test patient information so that you will be able to test your integration. Additionally, enhanced implementation services are also available if you would like to configure custom test cases; please review information on Flatiron’s Value-Added Services package for more details.

7. (Optional) Utilize Flatiron Value-Added Services

Depending on the type of FHIR® API integration the requester has requested to configure, it may be useful to partner more closely with a member of Flatiron’s FHIR® API implementation team. Flatiron’s Value-Added Services are optional, but may be beneficial if you are seeking additional hands-on integration support beyond the supporting materials provided in and referenced by Flatiron’s API documentation. In cases where a requester is interested in additional support services from Flatiron’s FHIR® API integration team, we recommend reviewing information on Flatiron’s Value-Added Services package for more details.

Where to Learn More

Interested in learning more about Flatiron’s FHIR® API offerings? Navigate to the below links for additional details on what we offer and how FHIR® APIs can support your interoperability needs. 




Flatiron FHIR API Offerings: Page includes a narrative overview of Flatiron’s FHIR® offerings (e.g., Bulk vs. Single Patient API). It also outlines the FHIR® API authorization methods that Flatiron supports and details the authorization flow that developers should expect when requesting data via a Flatiron FHIR® API. 




Flatiron FHIR Resources / Profiles: Outlines the specific data elements and search parameters that are supported by Flatiron’s FHIR® API offering. Also includes FHIR API request and response examples for review.




Flatiron FHIR API Terms: Includes FHIR® API business documentation such as terms and pricing




FAQs: Frequently asked questions for application developers

Information for Patients: Directions for patients to access their health information via Flatiron’s FHIR APIs

 

Home
