Skip to Main Content
FHIR
Search
Log in / Register
Home
Documentation
API Pricing

Jun 20, 2025Knowledge Articles
API Pricing

Flatiron’s Certified FHIR® API Pricing

Flatiron Health, Inc. (“Flatiron”) maintains https://flatiron.my.site.com/FHIR/s/  (the “Site”) as a means of providing access to various application programming interfaces (each, an “API” and, collectively, the “APIs”) for the purpose of facilitating the development of applications (collectively, the “API Client”) that have the ability to retrieve patient information stored in Flatiron’s cloud­based software (“Flatiron Software”), including OncoEMR®, Flatiron’s cloud­based electronic health record product.  

 

This page sets forth Flatiron’s Certified FHIR® API Pricing. Flatiron reserves the right to amend its Flatiron’s Certified FHIR® API Pricing  at any time and from time to time by posting revised Terms on the Site. If you elect to receive either EHR Launch or value-added services, then Flatiron will charge the fees described below pursuant to a separate Service Order contract. The terms for those Services Order contracts are posted here for EHR Launch and here for value-added services.These Terms were last revised on the date indicated below.

For Patients:

OncoEMR® patients may access any of their health information included within USCDI v1 via a SMART-on-FHIR® application of their choosing. Flatiron will not impose a fee on patients, application developers, nor OncoEMR® customers for this specific use case. 

For OncoEMR® Customers:

Flatiron R4 FHIR® APIs for USCDI v1 data elements are included within the cost of an OncoEMR® subscription. No additional fee is required to access Flatiron FHIR® APIs for these data elements when the request is made using a standalone launch mechanism. 

 

For use cases that require an OncoEMR® end user to launch the SMART-on-FHIR® application directly from OncoEMR® (EHR Launch), requesters will be charged a small fee, reflective of the cost to Flatiron to configure the specific OncoEMR® instance(s) that require(s) a launch button within the user interface. Flatiron’s standard EHR Launch offering allows users to access a SMART-on-FHIR® application via the left-hand navigation pane within OncoEMR via Single-Sign-On (SSO) and will be offered at the following price points:

Integration: $3,000. This price directly ties to Flatiron costs to develop and deploy FHIR® EHR Launch functionality. 

For Application Developers:

Flatiron offers two options for OncoEMR® FHIR® API integration support for application developers. These two options are described below. 

Base Support Offering: All information required to access Flatiron FHIR® APIs is included within Flatiron’s publicly available API documentation. In addition to this documentation, Flatiron will provide the basic support needed to ensure application developers are able to access FHIR® APIs once registered with a Flatiron FHIR® API account. Once registered, Flatiron will securely share client credentials and will troubleshoot any issues with the Flatiron system. 

 

Price: Free of charge

 

Value-Added Services: Flatiron offers a “value-added services” package to any application developers seeking to enhance their FHIR® API offering when integrating with OncoEMR®. These services are not required to enable a FHIR® API integration and are an optional, supplemental offering for application developers seeking to enhance their OncoEMR® integration experience. Application developers can elect to purchase these services but are not required to purchase these services in order to develop and deploy production-ready apps for API technology. The value-added services package includes ongoing support from a dedicated Flatiron FHIR® API integration specialist to discuss:

End-to-end integration workflow design

Custom testing requirements

Go-live and cutover preparation

FHIR API training

Post-live enhanced support

 

Price: The value-added services package is available to application developers at a one-time fee of $5,000 per OncoEMR® customer integration. This fee is reflective of the costs to Flatiron to provide value-added services. Application developers may choose to purchase the value-added services package for their initial OncoEMR® customer - application integration. They may also choose to purchase value-added services (at the same $5,000 fee) for each subsequent integration configured with an OncoEMR® customer. 





API-Pricing
Published
FHIR API Terms
API Pricing
